---
title: GraphQL + ExpressJS clean architectural pattern
date: 19/1/24
---

So this was my initial "pattern" (or non-pattern really):

```
| src
    - Resolvers.ts
    - TypeDefs.ts
    - index.ts
```

Where all my resolvers for all my models will be in one file `src/Resolvers.ts` and all my type definitions for all my models will be in `TypeDefs.ts`. I'm not going to put the code here, but as you can imagine, each file can get very large and messy, containing resolvers / type defs for different models.

As a clean freak, this irked me A LOT.

So I did some refactoring, and this is the design I came up with so far:

```
| src
    - | resolvers
        - index.ts
        - transactions.ts
        - users.ts
    - | typeDefs
        - index.ts
        - transaction.graphql
        - user.graphql
    - index.ts
```

So now this looks better, each resolver and type defs file is split according to its model, but I still need to merge these resolvers and type defs together into one schema. [GraphQL tools](https://the-guild.dev/graphql/tools) provides us the tools to do this.

# Install packages

Since I don't need all the tools that GraphQL tools provides, I just installed these 2 packages out of the box:

[@graphql-tools/merge](https://the-guild.dev/graphql/tools/docs/schema-merging) - Merges multiple resolvers / type defs into a single resolvers object / type definition to make up one schema.

[@graphql-tools/load-files](https://the-guild.dev/graphql/tools/docs/schema-merging#file-loading) - This one is pretty straightforward, this is used to import all our resolvers or type defs files.

Install these with `npm install @graphql-tools/merge @graphql-tools/load-files`.

# Merging type defs / resolvers

I won't go much into each model's type defs as I think it's self-explanatory, but this is my implementation for merging all my models' type definitions:

```
// src/typeDefs/index.ts
import { loadFilesSync } from '@graphql-tools/load-files'
import { mergeTypeDefs } from '@graphql-tools/merge'
import path from 'path'

const typesArray = loadFilesSync(path.join(__dirname, './'), {
    // view docs for more extensions
    extensions: ['graphql'],
    // ignores index.ts file
    ignoreIndex: true
})

export default mergeTypeDefs(typesArray)

```

This is also done the same way for `src/resolvers/index.ts`, just without the `graphql` extension config.

If you remember in a [previous post](https://fattynomnom.github.io/generate-typings-from-graphql-schema) where I talked about using [Codegen](https://the-guild.dev/graphql/codegen/docs) to generate Typescript types from GraphQL type defs, we would also need to re-configure it to generate typings from multiple type definition files.

This is my updated config:

```
// codegen.ts
import type { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

const config: CodegenConfig = {
    overwrite: true,
    schema: 'src/typeDefs/*.graphql', // note that I'm using an asterik to generate from all .graphql extension files
    generates: {
        'src/generated/graphql.ts': {
            plugins: ['typescript', 'typescript-resolvers']
        }
    }
}

export default config
```

Ideally, I would've liked to separate the types across different files as well, but I have an issue where if I'm cross-referencing types, Codegen cannot import the type from other files for you (at least not that I know of). For example:

```
// src/typeDefs/user.graphql
type User {
    email: String!
    transactions: Transaction // I am referencing another type in another file here
}
```

```
// src/typeDefs/transaction.graphql
type Transaction { // I am using this type inside user.graphql
    ...
}
```

So if I were to separate the typings as well, Codegen would not be able to import the `Transaction` type inside `src/typeDefs/user.graphql` for me, and an error will be thrown if I try to run Codegen. I am PRETTY sure there is a way around this that I haven't found yet. So its not pretty, but a single generated typings file will have to do for now.

And thats it, the pattern is pretty simple. If anyone would like to explore my files structure thoroughly, the full GitHub repo is [here](https://github.com/fattynomnom/itrack-expressjs).
